a new high-tech submarine sailed into
Pearl Harbor today bringing the number
23 of advanced attack subs now stationed
right here in Hawaii kitv4's Paul Drewes
was there as the sub came in and has
more paw Laura the USS North Carolina
will be homeported here and is waiting
for its first deployment while there are
no problems getting the sub here from
the east coast there were still
challenges faced by the big move to the
islands
this virginia-class attack submarine is
the future for the US Navy the Virginia
class is really optimized for operations
in the post-cold war environment
stealthy and fast the USS North Carolina
can go where many other big subs can't
into shallow water that was practiced by
its crew on its way out to Hawaii along
with other important techniques new to
this size sub capabilities have very
precise low speed shift control
deploying our recovery of seals for some
of the crew it's been a long four months
at sea just to bring the USS North
Carolina here all that training meant
many missed important time with family
when you is seven days old i left them
come back to my phone war vessel family
members are all smiles now that the
journey is over but for some getting 20
wahoo and settling in has been a
challenge taken him all i hear was a
with a trip baileys while Sandler's
learn how to work the high-tech
equipment on board this nuclear-powered
sub some wives shipped out months ago to
arrive in the islands get homes ready
and kids in school kids like 11 year-old
Colin sites he was actually born here
and he never knew Hawaii he was only two
and a half when we left and just as
sailors rely on one another on board
this fast attack submarine family of the
crew have relied on one another to make
this move to Hawaii a little easier the
fact that the families came with us were
people he knew so we all have that
fortunate experience to have our North
Carolina family come with us here so it
was a comfort zone now after the crew of
the USS North Carolina gets settled in
their commander says they will be ready
for their first deployment next year
Laura all right thanks Paul